You're now ready to see how to build one
layer of convolutional neural network.
Let's go through an example.
You've seen in a previous video
how to take a 3D volume and
convolve it with say two
different filters in order to get,
in this example,
two different four by four outputs.
So let's say convolving
with the first filter
gives this first four by four output.
And convolving with this second filter
gives a different four by four output.
The final thing to turn this into a
convolutional neural net layer is that for
each of these we're going to add a bias,
so this is going to be a real number.
And with Python broadcasting
you kind of add the same number
to every one of these 16 elements.
And then apply a non-linearity,
which for illustration,
this is a [INAUDIBLE] non-linearity and
this gives you a four by
four output after applying the bias and
the non-linearity.
And then for this thing at the bottom
as well you add some different bias.
Again, this is a real number.
So you have the same real number,
it's all 16 numbers.
And then apply some non-linearity,
let's say a real non-linearity.
And this gives you a different
four by four output.
Then, same as we did before.
If you take this and
stack it up as follows,
so you end up with a four
by four by two output.
Then this computation where you've gone
from a six by six by three to a four
by four by four, this is one layer
of a compositional neural network.
So to map this back to one layer of
four propagation in the standard neural
network, or a non-convolutional neural
network, remember that one step
of forward prop was something like this,
right, z1 = w1 times a0.
a0 was also equal to x.
And then plus b1.
And you apply the non-linearity to get a1.
So that's g(z1).
So this input here in this analogy,
this is a0, and this is x really.
And these filters here displays
a variable similar to w1.
And you remember during the convolution
operation, you're taking these 27 numbers,
or really well 27 times 2,
because you have two filters.
You're taking all of these numbers and
multiplying them, so
you're really completing a linear
function to get this four by four matrix.
So that four by four matrix,
the outputs of the convolution operation,
that plays a role similar to w1 times a0.
It's really maybe the operative of this
four by four as well as that four by four.
And then the other thing
you do is add the bias.
So this thing here, the four plane value,
this plays a role similar to z.
And then it's finally by applying the
non-linearity, it's kind of this, I guess.
So this output, right, plays a role,
this really becomes your
activation at the next layer.
So this is how you go from a0 to a1.
There's first the linear operation and
then convolution as all these multiply.
So the convolution is really applying the
linear operation, and you add the biases,
and you apply a value operation, and
you've gone from a six by six by
three dimensional a0 through
one layer of a neural network
to I guess a four by four
by two dimensional a1.
So six by six by three has
gone to four by four by two.
And so
that's one layer of a convolutional net.
Now in this example we have two filters,
so we had two features as well.
Which is why we want of our
output four by four by two.
But if, for example, we instead had ten
filters instead of two then we would have
one tap with four by four by
ten dimensional output volume.
Because we'd be taking ten of these maps,
not just two of them, and
stacking them up to form a four
by four by ten output volume.
And that's what a1 would be.
So to make sure you understand this,
let's go through an exercise.
Let's suppose you have 10 filters,
not just 2 filters, that are 3 x 3 x
3 in one layer of a neural network.
How many parameters does this layer have?
Well let's figure this out.
Each filter is a three by
three by three volume.
So three by three by three.
So each filter has 27 parameters, right.
So it's 27 numbers to be learned.
And then plus the bias, so
that was the b parameters.
So this gives you 28 parameters And
then if you imagine that, on the previous
slide we had drawn two filters,
but now if you imagine that you
actually have ten of these.
1, 2, dot, dot, dot, 10 of these,
then all together you
would have 28 times 10, so
that would be 280 parameters.
Notice one nice thing about this is that
no matter how big the input image is,
the image could be 1,000 by 1,000 or
5,000 by 5,000,
but the number of parameters you
have still remains fixed as 280.
And you can use these ten filters
to detect features, vertical edges,
horizontal edges, maybe other features,
anywhere even in the very,
very large image with just a very
small number of parameters.
So this is really one property of
convolutional neural nets that makes less
prone to over 15, that you could,
so long as you learn 10 feature
detectors that work, you could apply
this even to very large images.
And the number of parameters
still remains fixed and
relatively small, as 280 in this example.
All right, so to wrap up this video,
let's just summarize the notation we're
going to use to describe one layer,
to describe a convolutional layer,
in convolution neural network.
So layer l is a convolutional layer.
I'm going to use f superscript
[l] to denote the filter size.
So previously we've been saying
the filters are f by f, and
now this superscript [l] just denotes
that this is a filter size as an f
by f filter in the layer l.
And as usual the superscript [l] is the
notation we're using to refer to layer l.
going to use p[l] to denote
the amount of padding, and again,
the amount of padding can also
be specified just by saying that
you want a valid convolution,
which means no padding.
Or a same convolution,
which means you choose the padding so
that the output size has the same
height and width as the input size.
And then I'm going to use
s[l] to denote the stride.
Now the input to this layer is
going to be some dimension.
There's going to be some n by n
by number of channels
in the previous layer.
Now I'm going to modify this notation
a little bit, I'm going to use superscript
l-1 because that's the activation
from the previous layer up.
[l-1] times nc[l-1].
And in the examples so far,
we've been just using images
with the same height and width.
But in case the height and width might
differ, I'm going to use superscript h and
superscript w to denote the height and
width of the input of the previous layer.
All right, so
in layer l the size of the volume
will be nh by nw by nc,
with superscript [l].
It's just in layer l the input to
this layer is whatever you had
from the previous layer, so
that's why you have o minus one there.
And then the neural network,
excuse me, this layer and
then this layer of the neural network will
output, will itself output the volume.
So that would be nh of l
by nw of l by nc of l,
l be the size of the output.
And so whereas we have previously
said that the output volume size,
or at least the height and
width, is given by this formula,
(n+2p-f over
s)+1, and then take the full of that or
round it down.
And in this new notation what
we have is that the output's
volume that is in layer l is
going to be the dimension
from the previous layer plus
the padding we're using in this layer l
minus the filter size we're
using in this layer l and so on.
And technically this is true for
the height, right,
so the height of the output
volume is given by this.
And you can compute it with
this formula on the right.
And the same is true for
the width as well, so you cross out h and
throw in w as well.
Then the same formula with either
the height or the width plugged in.
We're also computing the height or
the width of the output volume.
So that's how nhl-1 relates to nh1,
and wl-1 relates to nwl.
Now how about the number of channels?
Where do those numbers come from?
Let's take a look.
If the upward volume has this depth,
well we know from the previous
examples that that's equal to the number
of filters we have in that layer.
So we had two filters,
the output volume was four by four
by four by two, was two dimensional.
And if you have ten filters, then
the output volume was four by four by ten.
So this, the number of
channels in the output volume,
that's just the number of filters we're
using in this layer of the neural network.
Next, how about the size of each filter?
Well each filter is going to be fl,
by fl by one other number, right.
So what is this lost number?
Well we saw that you
need to convolve a six by
six by three image with a three
by three by three filter.
And so
the number of channels in your filter
must match the number of
channels in your input.
So this number should match that number,
right,
which is why each filter is
going to be fl by fl by nc, l-1.
And the output of this layer
after applying the biases and
non-linearity is going to be
the activations of this layer, al.
And that we've already seen
will be this dimension, right.
The al will be a 3D volume
that's n hl by nwl by ncl.
And when you are using
a [INAUDIBLE] instrumentation or
you know [INAUDIBLE] or
mini [INAUDIBLE], then you actually
output al which is a set of m
activations if you have m examples.
So that will be m by nhl by nwl by ncl,
right.
If say you're using.
And in the parameter sizes, this would
be ordering of the variables and
we have the index and
the training examples first and
then these three variables.
Next, how about the weights or
the parameters or kind of the w parameter?
Well we saw already what
the filter dimension is.
So the filters are going to
be fl by fl by nc l-1,
but that's the dimension of one filter.
How many filters do we have?
Well this is the total number of filters,
so
the weights,
really all of the filters put together,
will have dimension given by this times
the total number of filters, right.
Because this loss
quantity is the number of
filters, In layer l.
And then finally you have
the bias parameters, and
you have one bias parameter,
one real number, for each filter.
So you're going to have,
the bias will have this many variables,
it's just a vector of this dimension.
Although later on we'll see that
in the code it will be more
convenient represented as a one
by one by one by ncl dimension,
four dimensional matrix or
four dimensional.
So I know that was a lot of notation,
and, This is the convention I've used for
the most part.
I just want to mention, in case you search
online and look at open source codes,
there isn't a completely universal
standard convention about the ordering
of height, width, and channel.
So if you look on source code on GitHub or
read some of the open source
implementations, you find that some
authors use this authoring standard
where you first put the channel first.
And you sometimes see that all
through the other variables.
And in fact in some current frameworks,
actually in multiple current frameworks,
there's actually a variable or a parameter
whether you want to list the number of
channels first list the number of channels
lost when indexing into these volumes.
And I think both of these conventions
work okay so long as you are consistent.
And unfortunately maybe this
is one piece of notation
where there isn't consensus in
the deep learning literature.
But I'm going to use this convention for
these videos.
Where we list height and then width and
then the number of channels lost.
So I know there was suddenly a lot of new
notations introduced, but you thinking,
wow, there is a lot of notation.
How do I need to remember all of these?
Don't worry about it, you don't need
to remember all of this notation, and
through this week's exercises you become
more familiar with it at that time.
But the key point I hope you take away
from this video is just how one layer
of the compositional neural network works,
and the computations involved in taking
the activations of one layer and mapping
that to the activations of the next layer.
And next, now that you know how one layer
of the compositional neural network works,
let's stack a bunch of these
together to actually form a deeper
compositional neural network.
Let's go on to the next video to